README.md, before:

# Awesome Android Apps [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A curated list of awesome open source Android applications, tutorials and resources. Inspired by other awesome-* projects.

Contents
=================
  * [Advertisement blocking](#advertisement-blocking)
  * [App stores](#app-stores)
  * [Book readers](#book-readers)
  * [Browsers](#browsers)
  * [Cameras](#cameras)
  * [Communication](#communication)
  * [Education](#education)
  * [Media Players](#media-players)
  * [Music](#music)
  * [Office](#office)
  * [Password managers](#password-managers)
  * [Personalisation](#personalisation)
  * [Photos](#photos)
  * [Streaming](#streaming)
  * [VPN](#vpn)
  * [Others](#others)
  * [Modding](#modding)

## Advertisement blocking

- [AdAway](https://adaway.org/) - Ad blocker for Android using the hosts file (Require root).
- [Blokada](https://blokada.org/) - Ad blocker for Android using the VPN API.
- [DNSfilter](https://www.zenz-solutions.de/personaldnsfilter/) - Ad blocker for Android using a VPN, supports hosts files.

## App stores

- [Aurora Droid](https://gitlab.com/AuroraOSS/auroradroid) - Fork of the F-Droid client with external repos ready to sync (Root permission is optional).
- [Aurora Store](https://auroraoss.com/) - Unofficial FOSS client to Google Play Store (Root permission is optional).

## Book Readers

- [Book Reader](https://gitlab.com/axet/android-book-reader/tree/HEAD) - Based on [FBReader](https://fbreader.org/); book reader with a simple UI.
- [Shosetsu](https://github.com/ShosetsuOrg/android-app) - Light novel reader.
- [Tachiyomi](https://github.com/inorichi/tachiyomi) - Manga reader.

## Browsers

- [Bromite](https://www.bromite.org/) - Based on Chromium; built-in adblocking; enhanced privacy; degoogled.
- [Fennec F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.mozilla.fennec_fdroid/) - Based on the latest Firefox release; removed any proprietary bits of the standard Firefox for Android - NOTE: There might still be some binaries left and the app (or some builds) might get removed or re-pushed anytime.
- [Firefox Focus](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/focus) - Privacy-oriented browser with tracking protection and content blocking.
- [Firefox Klar](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/what-firefox-klar-android) - Privacy-oriented browser with tracking protection and content blocking; for the German market.
- [Kiwi Browser](https://kiwibrowser.com/) - Based on Chrome Canary; extension support; built-in dark mode; degoogled.
- [Privacy Browser](https://www.stoutner.com/privacy-browser/) - Minimal browser focused for privacy.

## Cameras

- [Open Camera](https://opencamera.sourceforge.io/) - Camera app with DSLR features.

## Communication

- [AnySoftKeyboard](https://anysoftkeyboard.github.io/) - Keyboard with tons of features.
- [Conversations](https://github.com/siacs/Conversations) - XMPP/Jabber client.
- [Delta Chat](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-android) - Email-based instant messaging for Android.
- [Fedilab](https://fedilab.app/) - Fedilab is a multifunctional Android client to access the distributed Fediverse. It supports Mastodon, Pleroma, Pixelfed, Peertube, GNU Social, Friendica.
- [Frost for Facebook](https://allanwang.github.io/Frost-for-Facebook/) - Third-party app for Facebook.
- [Infinity for Reddit](https://github.com/Docile-Alligator/Infinity-For-Reddit) - This is a Reddit client on Android written in Java. It does not have any ads and it features clean UI and smooth browsing experience.
- [Jitsi Meet](https://jitsi.org/jitsi-meet/) - Instant video conferences efficiently adapting to your scale.
- [KDE Connect](https://community.kde.org/KDEConnect) - A project that enables all your devices to communicate with each other.
- [OpenBoard](https://github.com/dslul/openboard) - Fork of AOSP Keyboard; minimal and simple to use.
- [QKSMS](https://github.com/moezbhatti/qksms) - SMS Messaging app.
- [RedReader for Reddit](https://github.com/QuantumBadger/RedReader) - Unofficial Reddit client; material-design; ad-free and has tons of customisation.
- [RTranslator](https://github.com/niedev/RTranslator) - Universal translator based on Google's APIs and Bluetooth LE.
- [Slide](https://github.com/ccrama/Slide) - Unofficial Reddit client; material-design; ad-free and has tons of customisation.
- [Tusky](https://tusky.app/) - Mastodon client for Android.
- [Yaxim](https://yaxim.org/) - Yet another XMPP instant messenger.

## Education

- [phyphox](https://phyphox.org/) - Sensors and data analyser.

## Media Players

- [mpv](https://mpv.io/) - Minimal media player.
- [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/) - Minimal media player.

## Music

- [Metro](https://github.com/MuntashirAkon/Metro) - Fork of [Retro Music Player](#retro-music-player) with removed proprietary Google Play libraries.
- [Music](https://github.com/MaxFour/Music-Player) - Lightweight and Material Music Player.
- [Odyssey Music Player](https://github.com/gateship-one/odyssey) - Lightweight music player.
- [Retro Music Player](https://github.com/h4h13/RetroMusicPlayer) - Local music player for Android.
- [Shuttle Music Player](https://github.com/timusus/Shuttle) - Local music player for Android.
- [Vinyl Music Player](https://github.com/AdrienPoupa/VinylMusicPlayer) - Local music player for Android.
- [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/) - Minimal media player.

## Office

- [Collabora Office](https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/plugins/gitiles/online) - Office suite available for Android, GNU/Linux, iOS, macOS, Windows.
- [OnlyOffice](https://www.onlyoffice.com/) - Office suite available for Android, GNU/Linux, iOS, macOS, Windows. **(This app is _proprietary).** 

## Password managers

- [Bitwarden](https://github.com/bitwarden/mobile) - Free and open-source, cross-platform password manager available via cloud/self-hosting. NOTE: To download on F-Droid you need to add the Bitwarden repository. Manual vault syncing is required with that version.
- [Keepass2Android](https://github.com/PhilippC/keepass2android) - Keepass2Android is an open source password manager compatible with KeePass (v1 and v2), KeePassXC, MiniKeePass and many other KeePass ports.
- [Master Password](https://masterpassword.app/) - A stateless password management solution. Uses a cryptographic algorithm calculates your site's password for you, only when you need it.

## Personalisation

- [Lawnchair 2](https://lawnchair.app/) - Continuation of Lawnchair 1; Pixel features; fork of [Launcher3](https://github.com/amirzaidi/Launcher3).
- [Lawndesk](https://github.com/renzhn/Lawndesk) - Fork of Lawnchair V2; app-drawer-free launcher.
- [Librechair](https://gitlab.com/oldosfan/librechair) - Degoogled; fork of Lawnchair V2 & [Launcher3](https://github.com/amirzaidi/Launcher3).
- [OpenLauncher](https://github.com/OpenLauncherTeam/openlauncher) - Launcher that aims to be a powerful and community driven project.

## Photos

- [Phimp.me](https://github.com/fossasia/phimpme-android) - Photo Imaging and Picture Editor.

## Streaming

- [NewPipe](https://newpipe.schabi.org/) - Lightweight Google-free YouTube client.
- [SkyTube](https://skytube-app.com/) - An open-source YouTube™ app for Android™.

## VPN

- [ProtonVPN](https://protonvpn.com/) - Operated by Swiss company Proton Technologies; [GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation)!!! :) ([Source Code](https://github.com/ProtonVPN/android-app)).
- [RiseupVPN](https://riseup.net/en/vpn) - Community-driven; based in Washington, USA (**WARNING: [Five Eyes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Eyes)**)

## Others

- [Codec Info](https://github.com/Parseus/codecinfo) - Detailed listing of multimedia codecs on your Android device - with no ads!
- [Exodus](https://github.com/Exodus-Privacy/exodus-android-app) - Tracker finder for a particular Android application.
- [Termux](https://github.com/termux/termux-app) - Termux is an Android terminal emulator and Linux environment app.

## Modding

> **NOTE: This category is for those that want to modify their Android system. Be warned that some of the rooted apps may result in a bootloop.**

- [Island](https://island.oasisfeng.com/) - By the creator of [Greenify](https://forum.xda-developers.com/apps/greenify); uses the "Work Profile" feature of Android to create a sandbox environment to clone apps and isolate them ([Source Code](https://github.com/oasisfeng/island)) (Root permission is optional).
- [Insular](https://gitlab.com/secure-system/Insular) - Fork of [Island](#island) with removed proprietary Google Play libraries.
- [Magisk Manager](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk) - Front-end to [Magisk](https://magisk.me/) (Require root).
- [Material Files](https://github.com/zhanghai/MaterialFiles) - Material Design file manager (Root permission is optional).
- [microG](https://microg.org/) - FOSS alternative to Google Play Services to run apps that are require to have Google Play Services installed. **(WARNING: microG Services trip [SafetyNet](https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/android/gms/safetynet/SafetyNet) and do your research before proceeding!)** Read the [unofficial microG wiki](https://old.reddit.com/r/MicroG/wiki/index) to know how to install ([Source Code](https://github.com/microg)).
- [ScreenCam](https://gitlab.com/vijai/screenrecorder) - Lightweight and functional screen recorder.
- [Shelter](https://github.com/PeterCxy/Shelter) - Leveraging the “Work Profile” feature of Android to provide an isolated space that you can install or clone apps into.
- [Smartpack-Kernel Manager](https://github.com/SmartPack/SmartPack-Kernel-Manager/) - Fork of [Kernel Adiutor](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.grarak.kerneladiutor&hl=en) with a set of additional features (Require root).

## Contributing

Want to contribute? Feel free to fork the project and send merge requests when you are done. Be sure it is in alphabetical order. I will check it out and will decide if I should accept it or not. If you do not want to fork the project, consider [opening an issue](https://github.com/TheEvilSkeleton/free-and-open-source-android-apps/issues) and suggest what application you want me to install.

## Other Git repositories

[Ashpex / Android FOSS Apps](https://gitlab.com/Ashpex/android-FOSS-apps)

[Mybridge / amazing-android-apps](https://github.com/Mybridge/amazing-android-apps)

[pcqpcq / open-source-android-apps](https://github.com/pcqpcq/open-source-android-apps)

[unicodedeveloper / awesome-opensource-apps](https://github.com/unicodeveloper/awesome-opensource-apps#android)

[samedamci / FOSS_Stuff](https://git.samedamci.me/samedamci/FOSS_Stuff)

## External sources

[Android Authority](https://www.androidauthority.com/best-open-source-apps-for-android-861665/)

[Beebom](https://beebom.com/open-source-apps-android/)

[FossBytes](https://fossbytes.com/best-free-open-source-apps-android/)

[TechWiser](https://techwiser.com/open-source-android-apps/)

Commit message:

Made last changes to follow the awesome guidelines (#23)
* Update LICENSE

* Create DeprecatedContents.md

* Update DeprecatedContents.md

* Create Contributing.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

Fixed links

* Update DeprecatedContents.md

* Update README.md

* Update Contributing.md

Fixed DeprecatedContent link

README.md, after:

# Awesome Android Apps [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A curated list of awesome open source Android applications, tutorials and resources. Inspired by other awesome-* projects.

Contents
=================
  * [Advertisement blocking](#advertisement-blocking)
  * [App stores](#app-stores)
  * [Book readers](#book-readers)
  * [Browsers](#browsers)
  * [Cameras](#cameras)
  * [Communication](#communication)
  * [Education](#education)
  * [Media Players](#media-players)
  * [Music](#music)
  * [Office](#office)
  * [Password managers](#password-managers)
  * [Personalisation](#personalisation)
  * [Photos](#photos)
  * [Streaming](#streaming)
  * [VPN](#vpn)
  * [Others](#others)
  * [Modding](#modding)

## Advertisement blocking

- [AdAway](https://adaway.org/) - Ad blocker for Android using the hosts file (Require root).
- [Blokada](https://blokada.org/) - Ad blocker for Android using the VPN API.
- [DNSfilter](https://www.zenz-solutions.de/personaldnsfilter/) - Ad blocker for Android using a VPN, supports hosts files.

## App stores

- [Aurora Droid](https://gitlab.com/AuroraOSS/auroradroid) - Fork of the F-Droid client with external repos ready to sync (Root permission is optional).
- [Aurora Store](https://auroraoss.com/) - Unofficial FOSS client to Google Play Store (Root permission is optional).

## Book Readers

- [Book Reader](https://gitlab.com/axet/android-book-reader/tree/HEAD) - Based on [FBReader](https://fbreader.org/); book reader with a simple UI.
- [Shosetsu](https://github.com/ShosetsuOrg/android-app) - Light novel reader.
- [Tachiyomi](https://github.com/inorichi/tachiyomi) - Manga reader.

## Browsers

- [Bromite](https://www.bromite.org/) - Based on Chromium; built-in adblocking; enhanced privacy; degoogled.
- [Fennec F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.mozilla.fennec_fdroid/) - Browser based on the latest Firefox release; removed any proprietary bits of the standard Firefox for Android - NOTE: There might still be some binaries left and the app (or some builds) might get removed or re-pushed anytime.
- [Firefox Focus](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/focus) - Privacy-oriented browser with tracking protection and content blocking.
- [Firefox Klar](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/what-firefox-klar-android) - Privacy-oriented browser with tracking protection and content blocking; for the German market.
- [Kiwi Browser](https://kiwibrowser.com/) - Based on Chrome Canary; extension support; built-in dark mode; degoogled.
- [Privacy Browser](https://www.stoutner.com/privacy-browser/) - Minimal browser focused for privacy.

## Cameras

- [Open Camera](https://opencamera.sourceforge.io/) - Camera app with DSLR features.

## Communication

- [AnySoftKeyboard](https://anysoftkeyboard.github.io/) - Keyboard with tons of features.
- [Conversations](https://github.com/siacs/Conversations) - XMPP/Jabber client.
- [Delta Chat](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-android) - Email-based instant messaging for Android.
- [Fedilab](https://fedilab.app/) - Fedilab is a multifunctional Android client to access the distributed Fediverse. It supports Mastodon, Pleroma, Pixelfed, Peertube, GNU Social, Friendica.
- [Frost for Facebook](https://allanwang.github.io/Frost-for-Facebook/) - Third-party app for Facebook.
- [Infinity for Reddit](https://github.com/Docile-Alligator/Infinity-For-Reddit) - This is a Reddit client on Android written in Java. It does not have any ads and it features clean UI and smooth browsing experience.
- [Jitsi Meet](https://jitsi.org/jitsi-meet/) - Instant video conferences efficiently adapting to your scale.
- [KDE Connect](https://community.kde.org/KDEConnect) - A project that enables all your devices to communicate with each other.
- [OpenBoard](https://github.com/dslul/openboard) - Fork of AOSP Keyboard; minimal and simple to use.
- [QKSMS](https://github.com/moezbhatti/qksms) - SMS Messaging app.
- [RedReader for Reddit](https://github.com/QuantumBadger/RedReader) - Unofficial Reddit client; material-design; ad-free and has tons of customisation.
- [RTranslator](https://github.com/niedev/RTranslator) - Universal translator based on Google's APIs and Bluetooth LE.
- [Slide](https://github.com/ccrama/Slide) - Unofficial Reddit client; material-design; ad-free and has tons of customisation.
- [Tusky](https://tusky.app/) - Mastodon client for Android.
- [Yaxim](https://yaxim.org/) - Yet another XMPP instant messenger.

## Education

- [phyphox](https://phyphox.org/) - Sensors and data analyser.

## Media Players

- [mpv](https://mpv.io/) - Minimal media player.
- [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/) - Minimal media player.

## Music

- [Metro](https://github.com/MuntashirAkon/Metro) - Fork of [Retro Music Player](#retro-music-player) with removed proprietary Google Play libraries.
- [Music](https://github.com/MaxFour/Music-Player) - Lightweight and Material Music Player.
- [Odyssey Music Player](https://github.com/gateship-one/odyssey) - Lightweight music player.
- [Retro Music Player](https://github.com/h4h13/RetroMusicPlayer) - Local music player for Android.
- [Shuttle Music Player](https://github.com/timusus/Shuttle) - Local music player for Android.
- [Vinyl Music Player](https://github.com/AdrienPoupa/VinylMusicPlayer) - Local music player for Android.
- [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/) - Minimal media player.

## Office

- [Collabora Office](https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/plugins/gitiles/online) - Office suite available for Android, GNU/Linux, iOS, macOS, Windows.

## Password managers

- [Bitwarden](https://github.com/bitwarden/mobile) - Free and open-source, cross-platform password manager available via cloud/self-hosting. NOTE: To download on F-Droid you need to add the Bitwarden repository. Manual vault syncing is required with that version.
- [Keepass2Android](https://github.com/PhilippC/keepass2android) - Keepass2Android is an open source password manager compatible with KeePass (v1 and v2), KeePassXC, MiniKeePass and many other KeePass ports.
- [Master Password](https://masterpassword.app/) - A stateless password management solution. Uses a cryptographic algorithm calculates your site's password for you, only when you need it.

## Personalisation

- [Lawnchair 2](https://lawnchair.app/) - Continuation of Lawnchair 1; Pixel features; fork of [Launcher3](https://github.com/amirzaidi/Launcher3).
- [Lawndesk](https://github.com/renzhn/Lawndesk) - Fork of Lawnchair V2; app-drawer-free launcher.
- [Librechair](https://gitlab.com/oldosfan/librechair) - Degoogled; fork of Lawnchair V2 & [Launcher3](https://github.com/amirzaidi/Launcher3).
- [OpenLauncher](https://github.com/OpenLauncherTeam/openlauncher) - Launcher that aims to be a powerful and community driven project.

## Photos

- [Phimp.me](https://github.com/fossasia/phimpme-android) - Photo Imaging and Picture Editor.

## Streaming

- [NewPipe](https://newpipe.schabi.org/) - Lightweight Google-free YouTube client.
- [SkyTube](https://skytube-app.com/) - An open-source YouTube™ app for Android™.

## VPN

- [ProtonVPN](https://protonvpn.com/) - Operated by Swiss company Proton Technologies; [GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation)!!! :) ([Source Code](https://github.com/ProtonVPN/android-app)).
- [RiseupVPN](https://riseup.net/en/vpn) - Community-driven; based in Washington, USA (**WARNING: [Five Eyes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Eyes)**)

## Others

- [Codec Info](https://github.com/Parseus/codecinfo) - Detailed listing of multimedia codecs on your Android device - with no ads!
- [Exodus](https://github.com/Exodus-Privacy/exodus-android-app) - Tracker finder for a particular Android application.
- [Termux](https://github.com/termux/termux-app) - Termux is an Android terminal emulator and Linux environment app.

## Modding

> **NOTE: This category is for those that want to modify their Android system. Be warned that some of the rooted apps may result in a bootloop.**

- [Island](https://island.oasisfeng.com/) - By the creator of [Greenify](https://forum.xda-developers.com/apps/greenify); uses the "Work Profile" feature of Android to create a sandbox environment to clone apps and isolate them ([Source Code](https://github.com/oasisfeng/island)) (Root permission is optional).
- [Insular](https://gitlab.com/secure-system/Insular) - Fork of [Island](#island) with removed proprietary Google Play libraries.
- [Magisk Manager](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk) - Front-end to [Magisk](https://magisk.me/) (Require root).
- [Material Files](https://github.com/zhanghai/MaterialFiles) - Material Design file manager (Root permission is optional).
- [microG](https://microg.org/) - FOSS alternative to Google Play Services to run apps that are require to have Google Play Services installed. **(WARNING: microG Services trip [SafetyNet](https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/android/gms/safetynet/SafetyNet) and do your research before proceeding!)** Read the [unofficial microG wiki](https://old.reddit.com/r/MicroG/wiki/index) to know how to install ([Source Code](https://github.com/microg)).
- [ScreenCam](https://gitlab.com/vijai/screenrecorder) - Lightweight and functional screen recorder.
- [Shelter](https://github.com/PeterCxy/Shelter) - Leveraging the “Work Profile” feature of Android to provide an isolated space that you can install or clone apps into.
- [Smartpack-Kernel Manager](https://github.com/SmartPack/SmartPack-Kernel-Manager/) - Fork of [Kernel Adiutor](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.grarak.kerneladiutor&hl=en) with a set of additional features (Require root).

## Contributing

Want to contribute? Feel free to fork the project and send merge requests when you are done. Be sure to follow [these rules](Contributing.md).

I will check it out and will decide if I should accept it or not. If you do not want to fork the project, consider [opening an issue](https://github.com/TheEvilSkeleton/free-and-open-source-android-apps/issues) and suggest what application you want me to install.

## Footnotes

### Deprecated contents

To see content that is deprecated, lacking documentation or proprietary but still useful go to [DeprecatedContents](DeprecatedContents.md)

### Other Git repositories

[Ashpex / Android FOSS Apps](https://gitlab.com/Ashpex/android-FOSS-apps)

[Mybridge / amazing-android-apps](https://github.com/Mybridge/amazing-android-apps)

[pcqpcq / open-source-android-apps](https://github.com/pcqpcq/open-source-android-apps)

[unicodedeveloper / awesome-opensource-apps](https://github.com/unicodeveloper/awesome-opensource-apps#android)

[samedamci / FOSS_Stuff](https://git.samedamci.me/samedamci/FOSS_Stuff)

### External sources

[Android Authority](https://www.androidauthority.com/best-open-source-apps-for-android-861665/)

[Beebom](https://beebom.com/open-source-apps-android/)

[FossBytes](https://fossbytes.com/best-free-open-source-apps-android/)

[TechWiser](https://techwiser.com/open-source-android-apps/)
